Thai Fried Rice Noodles with Chicken or Tofu (gluten-free)
User Rating4.5 Star Rating (4 Reviews) write a review
By Darlene Schmidt, About.com Guide
Ads: Easy Recipe Free Recipe Rice Noodles Vegetable Soup Recipe Buttered Chicken Recipe

Easy Fried Rice Noodles with Chicken or Tofu

Copyright Darlene A. Schmidt, 11/26/09
Ads
Diet to Shed 9lbs Weekly
www.24Hour-Health.com/Diet
Shocking trick to shed 9lbs of fat weekly is revealed. Use this 1 tip!
Grow your own garlic
growtheplanet.com
Step by step tutorials from seeding to harvesting. Easy, fun, and free!
Exercise Your Brain
www.lumosity.com
Games You Didn't Know Existed to Fight Brain Decline and Aging.
See More About
thai noodles
rice noodles
gluten-free recipes
vegetarian thai food
tofu recipes
This easy Thai fried rice noodle dish starts with very thin noodles (called vermicelli 'rice stick' at Asian stores). Added to the rice noodles are shiitake mushrooms, red pepper, bean sprouts, and your choice of chicken or tofu if you're vegetarian/vegan. Add a special Thai sauce and you have a terrific noodle recipe that's great for any occasion, from everyday meals to a party-worthy dish. As a bonus, these rice noodles are healthy, low-fat, and gluten-free. ENJOY!
Prep Time: 12 minutes

Cook Time: 6 minutes

Total Time: 18 minutes

Yield: SERVES 2-3 as a Main Entree

Ingredients:

8 oz. very thin dried rice noodles ("vermicelli rice stick")
1 to 1.5 cup fresh chicken pieces/strips, OR equivalent of cubed tofu
3 cloves garlic
1 thumb-size piece galangal or ginger, sliced thinly or cut into matchstick-like pieces
1 cup or more fresh shiitake mushrooms, sliced
1 red bell pepper, sliced
2-3 cups fresh bean sprouts
1/2 cup chicken stock (or simulated chicken stock for vegetarians)
handful of fresh coriander
2 1/2 Tbsp. oil
MARINADE:
2 tsp. cornstarch dissolved in 3 Tbsp. soy sauce
STIR-FRY SAUCE:
1 Tbsp. soy sauce (use wheat-free soy sauce for gluten-free diets)
1 tsp. dark soy sauce (gluten-free diets substitute 1 Tbsp. wheat-free soy sauce)
1 Tbsp. fish sauce (vegetarians substitute 1.5 Tbsp. soy sauce)
1 tsp. sugar
1 Tbsp. lime juice
1/4 cup chicken stock OR faux chicken/vegetable stock
1-2 tsp. chili sauce, OR 1/2 to 3/4 tsp. cayenne pepper (to taste)
Preparation:

Marinate the chicken or tofu by pouring the cornstarch/soy sauce mixture over and stirring well. Set aside.
Soak rice noodles in a pot of hot water 5-12 minutes, or just until noodles are soft enough to eat, but still firm and a little bit 'crunchy' (they will finish cooking later). Drain and briefly rinse noodles with cold water to keep from sticking. Set aside.
Combine all stir-fry sauce ingredients, mixing them together in a cup. Set aside.
Heat a wok or large frying pan over medium-high heat. When hot, add 2 Tbsp. oil and swirl around, then add the garlic, ginger, chicken or tofu (together with the marinade), mushrooms, and a few tablespoons of stock. Stir-fry 5 minutes, or until chicken or mushrooms are cooked. When pan becomes dry, add a little more chicken stock, 1-2 Tbsp. at a time - enough to keep the ingredients sizzling.
Add red pepper and stir-fry another 1-2 minutes. Add the noodles plus stir-fry sauce. Using two utensils, lift and turn the noodles or use a tossing motion, like tossing a salad. Stir-fry in this way until the sauce is well distributed throughout the noodles (1-2 minutes).
Add bean sprouts, continuing to stir-fry another minute. Remove from heat and taste-test for salt/flavor, adding 1 Tbsp. more fish sauce or soy sauce if not salty enough. If too salty, add another squeeze of lime juice.
To serve, lift noodles out of the wok or frying pan and mound on a serving platter. Sprinkle with fresh coriander and garnish with wedges of fresh-cut limes. For those who like it spicy, serve with Thai Chili Sauce on the side, and ENJOY!